Add the Asset Store component (#2430)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/asset-store/docs/03-02-bucket-cr-lifecycle.md

---
title: Bucket custom resource lifecycle
type: Details
---

> Learn about the lifecycle of the Bucket custom resource (CR) and how its creation and removal affects other Asset Store components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn about the lifecycle of the Bucket custom resource (CR) and how its creation and removal affect other Asset Store components.
```

## Create a Bucket CR

> When you create a Bucket CR, the Bucket Controller receives and event on the new CR and creates a bucket with the **name** specified in the CR is created in the Minio Gateway storage under the `ns-{NAMESPACE_NAME}-{CR_NAME}` location. The status of the CR contains a reference URL to the created bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you create a Bucket CR, the Bucket Controller receives the event and creates a bucket with the **name** specified in the CR. It is created in the Minio Gateway storage under the `ns-{NAMESPACE_NAME}-{CR_NAME}` location. The status of the CR contains a reference URL to the created bucket.
```

`the event` - I'm not sure. But this is all about the "bucket CR has been created" event

> When you create a Bucket CR, the Bucket Controller (BC) receives an Event on the new CR and creates a bucket with the name specified in the CR. It is created in the Minio Gateway storage under the `ns-{NAMESPACE_NAME}-{CR_NAME}` location. The status of the CR contains a reference URL to the created bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a Bucket CR, the Bucket Controller (BC) receives a CR creation Event and creates a bucket with the name specified in the CR. It is created in the Minio Gateway storage under the `ns-{NAMESPACE_NAME}-{CR_NAME}` location. The status of the CR contains a reference URL to the created bucket.
```

> ![](assets/create-bucket.svg)

Reviewer 2: I think we can make it more understandable . We can think about it later on Monday.

## Remove a Bucket CR

> When you remove the Bucket CR, the BC receives an Event on the bucket deletion and removes the bucket with the whole content from Minio Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you remove the Bucket CR, the BC receives CR deletion Event and removes the bucket with the whole content from Minio Gateway.
```

> The Asset Controller (AC) also monitors the status of the referenced bucket. The AC checks the Bucket CR status to make sure the bucket exists. If the bucket is deleted, the AC receives information that that files are no longer accessible and the bucket was removed. The AC updates the status of the Asset CR to `ready: False` and the asset storage reference is removed. The Asset CR is not removed and you can use it later for a new bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Asset Controller (AC) also monitors the status of the referenced bucket. The AC checks the Bucket CR status to make sure the bucket exists. If the bucket is deleted, the AC receives information that the files are no longer accessible and the bucket was removed. The AC updates the status of the Asset CR to `ready: False` and the asset storage reference is removed. The Asset CR is not removed and you can use it later for a new bucket.
```

> ![](assets/delete-bucket.svg)

Reviewer 2: I think we can make it more understandable . We can think about it later on Monday.
